# certified-dimension-reduction

The purpose of this repository is to demonstrate the numerical examples of the manuscript [ZCLSM]. A part of the code used in this repository is outdated. The latest FastFInS package and many relevant functionality can be found at https://github.com/fastfins/fastfins.m, which will soon be released. 

# For the GOMOS example (Section 5.1)

0. Run `load_dir.m` to load other code needed. 
1. Run `dili_driver.m`. This file runs the DILI MCMC with the `MGLI-Langevin` proposal (Proposal Proposal 3.4 of [CKM16]). Here we first construct the LIS subspace using $10^5$ samples, and then simulate DILI MCMC for $10^6$ iterations. Then, the resulting Markov chain is used to demonstrate various error estimators established in the manuscript.
2. Run `build_HS.m`. This file construct the $H$ matrix using all the samples generated by the Markov chain. 
3. Run `eval_reduced.m` and `eval_reduced_fixed.m`. 
4. Run `summarise_distances.m` and `plot_conv.m`, which generates Figure 2 and 3 of the manuscript. 
5. Run `sample_size_test.m`, which generates Figure 5 of the manuscript. 

For the iterative algorithm (Alg. 2), we can run the file `run_iter_redu_driver.m` to generate Figure 4 of the manuscript. 

# For the elliptic PDE example (Section 5.2)

0. Run `load_dir.m` to load other code needed. 
1. Run `setup_MRF.m` to setup the PDE model. 
2. Repeat steps 1 - 4 of the GOMOS example. This gives Figures 7 and 8. 

# References

[ZCLSM] O. Zahm, T. Cui, K. Law, A. Spantini and Y. Marzouk. `Certified dimension reduction in nonlinear Bayesian inverse problems`. https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.03712. 

[CKM16] T. Cui, K. Law and Y. Marzouk. `Dimension-independent likelihood-informed MCMC.` Journal of Computational Physics 304 (1), 109-137.